[Tonosaman theme song playing]
TONOSAMAN
[birds chirping]
[Karino] When? Tonight?
Aye.
Yeah. Sure. I'll be home.
I mean, I am planning on lounging
around the house most of the day, so…
[cackling]
If you don't wish me
to reveal to the world
that your dad was laid off
and has gone missing,
then you have to eat
this shiitake mushroom!
[boy] Curse you, Snitch Shroom!
You know I hate shiitake mushrooms!
Ugh! This is all Dad's fault!
Darn it! Where have you gone, Dad?
Hold it right there!
-I challenge you to fight me in battle!
-[boy] Whoa!
I challenge you to fight me in battle.
[Snitch Shroom cackles] Tonosaman!
[Tonosaman laughs] I am strong!
[Kotaro laughs] I am strong!
[Karino] This cartoon is insane…
You can call me Tonosaman!
And I am kind to people!
[Karino] This is terrible.
I can't believe this is what
he wanted to borrow my TV for.
Why is he so into it?
[Tonosaman and Snitch Shroom grunting]
Hey. That's kinda loud, you know?
You mind turning it down a little?
It is kinda late.
[Kotaro] Aye. That is true. Apologies.
Ugh.
That is a bad habit of mine.
Hey. Don't sit so close.
You must not be able
to see Tonosaman with my head in the way.
My deepest apologies.
[Karino] It's not… Wait. What?
[Kotaro] You could stand
to straighten up your room more often.
[Kotaro] What? Who asked you?
I'll clean it up
when I take out the trash.
I was right. Tonosaman isn't popular.
Well, that makes sense.
So why is the kid so obsessed with it?
Well, he is a weird kid.
The way he talks…
I guess he learned all that
from Tonosaman.
Oh, it doesn't matter.
He'll get his own TV tomorrow.
[yawns] And I
won't have to watch it anymore.
BATH
[Kotaro singing] ♪ Slash, slash, slash ♪
♪ I'm super strong and kind ♪
♪ I'm the strongest there is ♪
♪ Tonosaman ♪
[Karino] Oh, man. He's off-key…
So is that, like, your favorite show?
Indeed.
And what is it you like so much about it?
[Kotaro] I will concede
the story is not the best.
Huh? So then why do you watch it?
Is it 'cause you like the character?
[Tonosaman exclaims]
[Kotaro] Hmm.
It is not a matter of liking him.
I would say Tonosaman
holds a special place in my heart.
[Karino] Special?
[boy] I'm not going home. [sobbing]
[man] Come on. Stand up, Georgie.
We need to get home for dinner.
-I wanna stay here!
-[man] Mom's waiting. Time to go.
[Karino] If you're gonna spend time
watching TV, don't you want it to be good?
It did not occur to me in the beginning
that television shows
were meant for entertainment.
[Karino] What does that mean?
You like staying up late to watch. Right?
When I was a little boy,
I had to go to bed early.
I mean, I never got
to watch TV late at night.
My parents were always nagging…
Oh, shoot.
[water splashing]
[Karino] Oh man.
Why did I mention parents?
-I don't wanna go!
-[man] Time to go!
Young sir, you should be most grateful
to have someone
who loves you by your side.
Remember that when you feel sad.
[water splashes]
[boy sniffling, whimpering]
He is very fortunate.
[emotional music playing]
I trust…
he'll never need to look for guidance
from the TV in the middle of the night.
His life will be fine
because he is cared for.
[cabinet opens, closes]
[Kotaro] To clarify what I said before…
Huh?
[Kotaro] Tonosaman
holds a special place in my heart.
However, I no longer require
the guidance of a TV show.
For I have grown
into an exceptional adult.
[Karino] Yeah. Well, you…
you got your shirt on backwards.
[music stops]
You have passed my test.
What kind of test is that?
[Karino snoring]
I am on my way to rescue you!
[Kotaro] I am on my way to rescue you!
[host] Next week, the finale of Tonosaman!
Was Tonosaman's true identity
a normal dad all along?
Stay tuned!
[Kotaro] Finale?
-[Karino snoring]
-[doorbell ringing]
[knocking on door]
[Karino groaning]
Yeah. Okay, I'm coming.
Give it a rest.
Hey, you.
What are we doing?
Uh, hello.
-What're we gonna do?
-What are you talking about?
[Isamu] About Tonosaman's final episode!
What are we doing about it?
Huh?
10 YEN PER TRY
10 YEN CAN
[birds chirping]
Oh, look!
Look at this kid's sign!
"Ten yen per person."
He's so cute!
What are you selling?
Aye. Yes. Glad you are here.
I shall perform Tonosaman for you.
Like an impression?
[Isamu] I know Kotaro
is going to be upset by this.
You know that. Right, Karino?
[Karino] Yeah. Of course.
Final episode.
Well, I mean, it kind of makes sense.
The show is total crap.
I would say that Tonosaman
holds a special place in my heart.
[emotional piano music playing]
-[Kotaro] Indeed.
-[woman laughs]
For it is my sworn duty
to protect those in need.
End scene.
[man] What? [scoffs] That's it?
That was a great impression you did!
[man] Ten yen for that?
[girl laughs]
Let's see. That was ten yen.
-Right, kiddo?
-[man] Uh…
This is for you. Here.
[both] You're paying us?
You did not earn this.
[man] Uh… Wow. That kid's harsh.
I'm betting Kotaro acts the way he does
because he's trying to be like Tonosaman.
That's how much that cartoon means to him.
Yeah. I know what you mean.
We watched it together the other night.
The kid kept repeating
every single line that he said.
[Isamu grunts] You and Kotaro
watched TV together?
Why not invite me?
You trying to make me jealous?
You can't keep him to yourself!
No. I'm not trying…
[chuckles]
[Kotaro] Aye. Ten yen for you, sir.
[dog barking]
[Kotaro] I do not have business with you.
[laughs]
-[Kotaro] Madam, please take this ten yen.
-[coins clatter]
[inaudible]
Ten yen is hardly enough.
[Tonosaman] Tonosaman is coming up next!
-[doorbell rings]
-[Kotaro] Hmm?
What do you say
we watch Tonosaman together. Huh?
Why all of a sudden?
Well, tonight's
the final episode of Tonosaman.
I thought maybe after tonight,
you might give up on talking
in that weird "feudal lord" sort of way.
Figured we'd come celebrate
the end of an era together.
[Kotaro] I will never cease.
Tonosaman's finale shall have no effect
on my use of proper language.
Take note, dear neighbor.
[door squeaks, closes]
Tonosaman! I knew you'd rescue me!
Indeed! For it is my sworn duty
to protect those in need!
[all] Indeed! For it is my sworn duty
Ugh! This was your idea!
Take it seriously!
You are being a real downer!
Yeah. Maybe this wasn't the best idea.
[Isamu] What?
What's that supposed to mean?
Then you should just go!
I mean, you're sitting
way too close to widdle Kotaro anyway!
[Kotaro] I have a solution.
-I will allow you both to gift me ten yen.
-It's my turn to--
You what? Are you serious?
Don't know why you need it,
but I'll give it to you.
[Karino] Now that Tonosaman's over,
are you gonna be okay
at night, by yourself?
[Kotaro] I told you already.
I no longer require
the company of a television at night.
All right, then.
[Karino snoring]
Indeed. I can handle this.
[Karino] Maybe we
could reconsider this whole
"using the public bath every day" thing?
For what reason?
'Cause it costs a lot of money.
That is not a problem.
Well, maybe you could see it
from my point of view, then.
You don't have to come.
Besides, the bathhouse is not just
a place to wash the filth from one's body,
it is a place to relax.
It is imperative to have one every day.
Personal hygiene is important.
NOTICE OF TEMPORARY CLOSURE
BOILER ISSUE
XX/XX FUJI BATH
[Karino] Closed for maintenance.
Well, nothing we can do about it.
And there are no other
public baths around here, so…
Oh, you miss your bath for a few days.
What's the big deal?
Right?
NEXT DAY
[birds chirping]
[yawns]
[Kotaro] Good morning, neighbor.
[Karino] Hey.
So are you just gonna
stand there and stare at me?
Please take your leave
so that I may dispose of my garbage.
Huh? Oh…
Yeah.
[whimsical piano music playing]
[Karino] He could've done that
without me moving.
What is it?
[Karino] What is up with you, today?
[Karino] What was that all about?
Oh, good morning!
Oh, good morning to you too.
Mizuki, have you seen…
have you seen the kid?
Kotaro? No. I haven't seen him, today.
Why? What's wrong?
Yeah.
Well, he's been acting
a bit stranger than normal, lately.
[Mizuki] Maybe you're just overreacting?
I guess that could be it.
You must maintain
this distance. Understand?
You know, you should really
look where you're headed there.
Allowing you the opportunity
to approach? I think not.
[Karino] What is going on with him?
-[cash register beeps]
-[cashier] That will be 456 yen.
Uh…
Please push my change
on the edge of the sword.
Um…
What is he doing?
[Karino] He really
is keeping his distance, today.
Take heed, sir.
You must not get any closer!
Okay, okay.
You wouldn't, by any chance,
possess a smartphone, would you?
Huh?
[whimsical piano music playing]
What? Where'd he go?
[cell phone ringing]
[Kotaro] Good day, sir. It is I.
Hey. Where are you calling me from?
I left money
and merchandise at the register.
Can you please handle the transaction?
[Karino] Here's the stuff
you bought and your change.
[Kotaro] Indeed.
Please toss them to me.
What is up with you?
You're acting so weird!
Stay back!
Huh?
I have not bathed in over 24 hours.
I am unclean!
[Karino] So? Who cares?
[Kotaro] My smell
will offend those around me!
Why are you being so overdramatic?
I mean, I haven't bathed either, you know?
Besides, it's not like anyone cares
if you smell a little.
I must hurry home.
[Karino] Hey. Wait!
Maybe think before you speak.
There's obviously more to it
than just not bathing.
[Karino] Huh?
You know, I would've been fine
letting him use my shower.
I'm just guessing here,
but Kotaro probably had
some kind of trauma
related to being dirty
or not being able to bathe.
[gasps]
[Mizuki] Maybe he thinks
if he's not perfect, people will hate him.
He's trying so hard
to act like a grown-up.
[birds chirping]
Kotaro, hi! I see you!
Oh, Lady Mizuki. Please do not judge me.
For you find me
in the midst of a desperate act.
Indeed, my last resort.
Your last resort?
[Kotaro] Aye.
The kitchen sink is just deep enough
to create a bathtub.
Brilliant, if I do say so myself.
Aye.
Now I can keep myself clean.
And my dear neighbor
will have no reason to hate me.
[Mizuki] You know, I heard the bathhouse…
[Karino] I would never hate him
for not bathing for a couple days.
[Kotaro] I'm glad they fixed the boiler.
[Karino] Starting tomorrow,
I'll be back to taking him
to the bathhouse every day.
[Kotaro] Since you mentioned it, my lady,
care to accompany me
to the bathhouse tomorrow?
Baths are more enjoyable
in the company of a lady.
[Karino] No way she's going for that.
Oh, thank you for the invitation,
but I have work tomorrow night.
Next time, though.
Oh, unfortunate timing.
[Karino] Yeah. That's what I thought.
-[keys jangling]
-[door unlocks]
[clock ticking]
[tense piano music playing]
[gasps] What are you doing?
It's late. Shouldn't you be asleep?
Did you just get off work?
Yeah. It was a long one.
You must be tired.
[Mizuki] You wanna tell me
why you're out here with your pillow?
I'm…
You're…
It's nothing, really. Have a good night.
Good night?
[bird warbling]
[Kotaro] Heading off to work, Lady Mizuki?
Yep. Another long night ahead.
Those bags…
[dog barking]
[Mizuki groans]
I'm exhausted.
It's pretty late for Kotaro
to still have his lights on.
I hope he's okay.
[birds chirping]
Those are pretty big bags
you got under your eyes.
Hey, Kotaro!
Why don't we have a sleepover, huh?
Come on! Today's my day off.
I know! We can go
to the bathhouse together.
I only have a shower,
so it would be great to have a soak.
A sleepover with Mizuki?
Lucky.
'Twould be impolite for me
to turn down a lady's invitation.
Perfect! It'll be fun!
[whimsical music playing]
All right. It's time to go to sleep.
Indeed.
Hey. You wanna do "arm pillows"?
A splendid idea.
Huh?
Here. Your pillow.
[Mizuki gasps] So cute!
Are you warm enough?
I'm good.
Is your arm getting too tired?
Not at all. This is nothing.
Think you can sleep?
I believe so.
[birds chirping]
[Karino] Whoa.
Those bags under his eyes look even worse.
Thanks for the sleepover, milady.
Of course. It was so fun.
[Karino] Hey, kid?
You better not have done anything weird.
[sighs] I had really hoped
that would work.
It's just a guess, but…
So, I hear you're having nightmares,
and that's why
you haven't been able to sleep.
Mizuki said she had
the same problem when she was little.
She thought it might help
if you didn't sleep all by yourself.
So you found out.
At my age, this is quite embarrassing.
But if I don't sleep,
I can't have nightmares.
Yeah. I get that.
Though, I was unable
to sleep last night for another reason.
'Twas the first time in my life
someone used my arm as a pillow.
[Karino] What?
[Kotaro] I must say it was rather warm.
[funky music playing]
[Kotaro] Oh, and she smells wonderful.
Yeah. I bet.
[Kotaro] To go to sleep
recalling that scent,
I will surely have pleasant dreams.
[Karino] I guess men
are perverts at any age.
Not like this is really
gonna make a difference, but…
It wouldn't kill me
to sleep a little closer to his wall.
Yesterday, I dreamt
that Lady Mizuki came over
and snuggled with me
throughout the night as I slept.
[Karino] I am putting my futon back.
[birds chirping]
SHIMIZU KINDERGARTEN
ENTRANCE CEREMONY
[calm music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
EVERYONE ON A SUNNY DAY/INSPIRATION FROM
CONVENIENCE STORE BENTOS…
Okay. You're all signed in.
Here's your badge.
Go on inside and find yourself a seat.
I am Kotaro Sato.
Oh. Uh, where is your mommy and daddy?
I am here on my own.
I am prepared
to handle the ceremony all by myself.
If you would please
hand me my badge, dear lady.
[Karino] Oh, man. That kid…
[Karino] Where are you going?
[door closes]
Taking out the trash.
Yeah. You don't have any trash.
And what's with
that new hat you're wearing?
If you're going somewhere,
I can come with you.
No. Thank you.
You know, it isn't safe
for you to roam around by yourself.
[Kotaro] Your presence is not required.
Where I am going is none of your concern.
You are exasperating.
Yeah? Well, I have way better things to do
than follow you around all day anyway.
[Kotaro] Wonderful!
So stay here and do not follow me!
Or I shall cleave you in twain.
[Karino] What?
-Farewell!
-[Karino] What? Hey! Get back here!
Oh, he really pisses me off!
That brat!
KOTARO SATO
[whimsical piano music playing]
[indistinct chatter, laughter]
Indeed.
I can handle this.
What? Kotaro isn't with you?
I just figured he'd be here.
I even brought some donuts
for us to eat together.
Well, where did he go?
He just sort of ran off.
He really didn't seem
to want anyone to go with him.
[Isamu] Hey!
Did I hear you say Kotaro's not here?
[growls]
You better not be keeping "widdle" Kotaro
all to yourself again! Huh?
It's nothing like that.
-[woman] Oh no!
-[both] Huh?
Hurry up! We'll be late
for the entrance ceremony!
-[Karino] Hey. That hat…
-[girl panting]
-Uh, ceremony?
-[Mizuki and Isamu] Oh.
Hey, you.
Why are you here all alone?
Everyone else here
has a mommy and daddy with them.
You're weird.
-They're here.
-[boy] Huh? No, they're not.
You may not see them,
but they are sitting right there.
What?
[Kotaro] You see,
my parents happen to be ninjas.
No way!
[Kotaro] They are masters
in the art of camouflage.
Cool!
This is going to be fine.
Just fine.
[whimsical music playing]
Uh, um, who might all of you be?
[all panting] Is Kotaro Sato here?
Uh… Oh! You're here for Kotaro!
I'm so glad you made it!
Are you all his guardians?
-I'm his mother.
-I'm his father.
-[Isamu] Huh?
-[woman] Uh…
All families are a little complicated.
[all panting]
I can't believe
it's "widdle" Kotaro's entrance ceremony!
Why would you let him go by himself?
I can't believe I didn't think of it.
Kotaro is about the age
where kids go to school.
All the other kids probably have
their parents there with them.
[exhales] Kotaro must be so lonely.
[Kotaro] Yeah? Well, I have better things
to do than follow you around all day.
[Kotaro] Wonderful!
So stay here and do not follow me.
[Karino panting]
[Karino] This kid seriously ticks me off!
Hmm?
You know, you don't always have to do
things like this all by yourself!
[Kotaro] I don't know
what you're talking about.
[Karino] Oh, you don't, do you?
Why do you always get to be the one
who sits right next to him?
Hey. Guess what?
I brought us donuts to eat afterwards.
My badge…
I was not able to put it on very well.
Could one of you possibly help?
[all] Oh…
[Karino] See?
You didn't need to be shy about asking.
[Kotaro] I am never shy!
-[Mizuki giggles] So cute!
-[Isamu] I think this calls for a hug!
[Kotaro] No, it does not!
SHIMIZU CONVENIENCE STORE
[birds chirping]
SHIMIZU KINDERGARTEN
EVERY WEDNESDAY IS BENTO DAY!
GUARDIANS, PLEASE MAKE THEM IF POSSIBLE
Bento. I can do this.
All right, boys and girls. Hands together.
[all in unison] Thanks for the food!
-[indistinct chatter]
-[whimsical music playing]
Now let us enjoy this meal.
Oh, wow!
Your bento looks just like a little bear!
[girl] My mommy made it for me!
[girl 2] My mommy made me a bento train!
Yours looks pretty boring.
That may be true, but it is a bento
made especially for ninjas.
Huh? So cool!
Takuya, please allow me
to take a photograph of your bento
for my personal records.
Uh, you're not supposed to have that here.
And this secret shall stay between us.
NEXT WEDNESDAY
[cash register beeping]
[cashier] Thanks so much.
[Kotaro] Aye. This will do.
That's so cool. I can't believe it!
Did you just make that yourself?
Indeed. It is my Tonosaman bento.
[children] Thanks for the food!
Kotaro, that's a great bento!
It's so cool!
Indeed. It is a Tonosaman bento.
Hey. You're right!
[children eating]
Aye. This will do.
[indistinct chatter]
[woman] Hey. How was your bento?
It was delicious!
It was? I'm glad!
Next time, can you make a cat?
[woman] Sure.
How about we work on it together?
[girl] Really, Mommy?
THE FOLLOWING WEDNESDAY AFTER THAT
[cashier] Hmm?
-[Kotaro] Excuse me, miss.
-[girl] Huh?
[Kotaro] I am on a quest
to make the perfect character bento.
Is it possible
that you could offer me some ideas?
[girl] Bento ideas?
[soft music playing]
[inaudible]
[all] Hmm.
I think
you should try adding a tomato nose.
Very well, madam.
Would you mind placing it for me?
You know,
an egg might make it more colorful.
Perfection! Please set down
this hard-boiled egg.
You could use seaweed for clothes.
Please add whatever you would like.
Oh, and what if we used a meatball?
That is glorious. Please make it so.
[cashier] Weird.
He made it by himself last time.
Wonder what happened.
That one's not as cool as yesterday.
You are too young to understand its value.
For this bento, by far, surpasses anything
that yesterday's box had to offer.
[girl] You wanna come play at my house?
The cat bento was really good too, Mommy!
Thank you for making it!
[woman chuckles] Of course.
[cashier] Is everything okay?
Indeed.
I wanted to thank everyone who helped
me out by contributing to my bento.
Therefore, I shall wait
for them to return.
Is that right? Well, I hope
they all come back again soon.
Indeed!
[ending theme song playing]
Subtitle translation by: Paul Koehler